h2. Selected JVM Problems and Input Values
*System:* DEMO_CounterAgent
*Container:* application
*Selected problems:* gc_latency

|| Parameter || Value ||
| gc_pause_p95_ms | 280 |
| gc_pause_p99_ms | N/A |
| gc_time_ratio_percent | N/A |
| container_memory_usage_percent | N/A |
| heap_used_mib | N/A |
| heap_used_percent | N/A |
| old_gen_used_mib | N/A |
| old_gen_capacity_mib | N/A |
| old_gen_used_percent | N/A |
| new_gen_used_mib | N/A |
| new_gen_capacity_mib | N/A |
| new_gen_used_percent | N/A |


h2. JVM Tuning Recommendation
*System:* DEMO_CounterAgent
*Target container:* application
*Lifecycle status:* tuning_attempted

h3. Runtime Context
|| Parameter || Value ||
| JDK version | N/A |
| Spring Boot version | N/A |
| Heap used (MiB) | N/A |
| OldGen used (MiB) | N/A |
| OldGen capacity (MiB) | N/A |
| GC pause p95 (ms) | 280 |
| GC pause p99 (ms) | N/A |
| GC time ratio (%) | N/A |
| Container memory working set (MiB) | N/A |
| Container memory limit (MiB) | 8192 |

h3. Findings
* *[HIGH]* gc.long_pause_p95: GC p95 pause exceeds threshold.
** gc_pause_p95_ms: 280
* *[INFO]* heap.metric_missing: Heap utilization is not provided. Recommendations may be less precise.
** source: ui.metric_input
* *[INFO]* oldgen.metric_missing: OldGen utilization is not provided. OldGen recommendations may be less precise.
** source: ui.metric_input

h3. Recommended Java Tool Options
h4. Recommendation 1: Reduce GC p95 pause
*Rationale:* p95 pause is above profile threshold.
*Confidence:* low
*Evidence score:* 33/100
*Risk score:* 45/100
*Expected gain:* lower tail latency
*Verification window:* 30-60m after deploy
*Platform escalation required:* No
*Suggested options:*
** {code}-XX:+UseG1GC{code}
** {code}-XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200{code}
** {code}-XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=30{code}
*Rollback plan:*
** Rollback to previous JVM option set if SLA worsens.
*Notes:*
** Collect GC logs for 30-60 minutes after rollout.
** Tune G1 pause target and initiating occupancy.
** Compare p95 and p99 against baseline.
** Config diff:
** - add -XX:+UseG1GC=enabled
** - add -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200
** - add -XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=30

h4. Recommendation 2: Input data quality warning
*Rationale:* Some problem-specific inputs are missing; analysis confidence is reduced.
*Confidence:* low
*Evidence score:* 35/100
*Risk score:* 10/100
*Expected gain:* higher recommendation accuracy after metric enrichment
*Verification window:* before next tuning cycle
*Platform escalation required:* No
*Rollback plan:*
** No rollback required.
*Notes:*
** Добавьте heap_used_mib или heap_used_percent для точной оценки pressure.
** Добавьте old_gen_used_percent или old_gen_used_mib для точной оценки oldgen pressure.


h3. Engineer Validation Runbook
# Apply recommended JVM options in test/stage environment first. Keep previous values for rollback.
# Run at least one representative load profile and compare with baseline metrics collected before the change.
# If no measurable improvement after the observation window, set status to tuning_not_effective and prepare escalation to dump analysis.

h3. Change Risks and Side Effects
* Any JVM option change can shift latency and throughput profile; always compare SLA/SLO against baseline.
* Rollback plan is mandatory: keep previous JVM flags and resource limits so the team can revert quickly.

h3. Escalation Rule
* If tuning recommendations do not improve GC/heap/memory-pressure metrics in the defined observation window, escalate to development team for heap dump and memory analysis.


h3. Problem-driven Context Validation
*Selected problems:* gc_latency
*Target container:* application

|| Problem || Input status || Missing required metrics ||
| gc_latency | PARTIAL | GC pause p99, GC time ratio |

h3. Recommendation Strategy (Safe/Balanced/Aggressive)
h4. gc_latency
* Safe: Зафиксировать G1 и умеренно снизить MaxGCPauseMillis без изменения общего heap budget.
* Balanced: Снизить pause target и скорректировать InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent c проверкой p95/p99.
* Aggressive: Агрессивно оптимизировать GC-параметры только после стабилизации heap pressure.

h3. Missing Data Collection Hints
* GC metrics: pull p95/p99 pause and GC time ratio from APM/Prometheus or GC logs.
* Heap metrics: collect heap used/committed and old-gen used/capacity from JMX.
* Memory pressure: collect container working set and correlate with memory limits.

h3. Targeted Outcome
* Findings in scope: 3; recommendations in scope: 2.

h3. Proposed Changes (Copy/Paste)
h4. jvm-config
{code:yaml}
application:
  javaToolOptions: >
    -XX:+UseG1GC
    -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200
    -XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=30
{code}

h4. Change summary
* add -XX:+UseG1GC=enabled
* add -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200
* add -XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=30
